In this lesson we're going to work with
tuples.
And tuples are very similar to lists, but
they're a little
bit different because they are, surrounded
by parentheses rather than brackets.
But we use, tuples a lot like we use
lists.
They're not, quite as universal.
But for some uses, they're quite adequate.
So for example, in this exercise, we're
going to
use tuples to represent a point, an xy
coordinate.
So let's get started, let me make sure my
program, is it already there?
Okay, it's not.
So we're gonna start a new program called
line.py, that's where
we're going eventually, is to make a line
out of two points.
But first we're gonna build the point
class, so we start off by writing our
constructor, and as you can see we build
the, field point by
creating a tuple out of the x and y
perimeters passed in, in the constructor.
So now, let's write a two string method.
And the way it's going to work is it's
going to, get the x coordinate, by
taking the zero position of the point, and
the y coordinate,
by taking the first position, of the point
just like so.
And then finally we're gonna write a
method called set location, that takes x
and y coordinates, and just sets our point
to a new tuple, of x and y.
So let's try that out.
We'll create a a point, display it,
and then set its location to somewhere
different.
And then, print it out again.
Let's see, what we get here.
Okay, so that worked just fine.
So now let's build a, line class so the
first thing we're going to do in our
constructor.
Is write self dot point one is equal to p
one, and self dot point two is equal to p
two.
And let's build a, to string method.
Just like so.
Then let's put a new line, and let's drop
down to
the next like to write the second point
out, just like that.
So let's create a line, line, one is
equals to
line, p one, and let's introduce a new
point, like so.
And that will become, the second point of
the line, and let's print the line.
Then let's set the location of the second
point,
to something different, and then print the
line again.
Okay, so let's see what we get.
Clear the screen.
Slight, typo.
Right, there.
Try it one, more time.
We'll just leave it up.
There we go.
So to review, quickly, a tuple, makes
an excellent data structure for storing
points.
XY coordinates.
And we use that, concept to create a point
class.
And then to create a line class, that uses
points.
In it's definition, now let me mention
that when you
use a class, in another class in this way
you're
performing something called composition,
and,
composition, recognizes has a
relationships,
just like inheritance recognizes is a
relationships, car is a vehicle.
Composition, recognizes has a
relationships.
In other words, a line has, a point.
Now this one and actually has two.
But you see the difference between,
inheritance and composition.
At a lot of times, people will
use inheritance when they should be using,
composition.
We mentioned this earlier in the, chapter
on inheritance, but I just
thought I'd mention it again, just because
it's a very important topic.
So that wraps up this exercise, on tuples,
and we're ready to move
to the last exercise, of the chapter,
where we're going to work with
dictionaries.